5.0.0 - 2016/xx/xx
==================


.. only:: html

.. contents::
:local:
        :depth: 3


Thanks to
---------
Open-Source is all about community and support! I want to thank everyone who contributed reports on forge, feedback on any channel and code!

Especially I want to thank my employer **Sup7even Digital**. Check out our new website http://www.sup7even.digital/!

Features
--------

Reworked administration module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The record listing in the administration module is now based on the record listing of the list module. There are several advantages

- See translations & workspace overlays
- Exact same behaviour as in the list module
- Less custom code

Full support of FAL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The full range of FAL assets can now be used, e.g. videos from youtube and vimeo and every file type which is supported by the various file renderers of the core and 3rd party extensions.

Twitter card support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Twitter supports some additional meta tags if an URL is shared. The following meta tags have been added to the the default templates:

- ``<meta name="twitter:card" content="..." />``
- ``<meta name="twitter:site" content="..." />``
- ``<meta name="twitter:creator" content="..." />``

All 3 can be filled by using constants.

As twitter recognizes and uses the og:image meta tags as well, those are not duplicated for twitter. If you need a fine tuning, please take a look at https://dev.twitter.com/cards/getting-started.

Support of shariff
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If the extension rx_shariff (https://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/rx_shariff) is installed, it will be used for the social sharing links instead of the custom ViewHelpers.
Shariff enables website users to share their favorite content without compromising their privacy.

Thanks to Markus Klein and https://reelworx.at/ for providing this extension!

Important changes
-----------------

Removal of old code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pre-FAL relations
"""""""""""""""""
Before FAL, EXT:news used to have custom relations to own media files and related files. Those 2 relations and all related code has been removed. This includes

- TCA
- Model
- Every migration and wizard
- Any media renderer which have been based the old relations

If you are using the FAL relations and the old ones togehter in one project, you need to migrate those records! There is **no** migration available or planned. Either write it on your own or get in contact with me (I can not do it for free!)

Wizards & Migrations
""""""""""""""""""""
Every previous available wizard and migration code has been removed. This includes:

- Migration from custom category records to sys_category
- Migration of the tt_content relation

ViewHelpers
"""""""""""

The following ViewHelpers have been removed:

- ``<n:falMediaFactory />``
- ``<n:mediaFactory />``
- ``<n:be.buttons.iconForRecord />``
- ``<n:be.buttons.icon />``
- ``<n:be.clickmenu />``
- ``<n:be.editRecord />``
- ``<n:be.multiEditLink />``

The following deprecated ViewHelpers have been removed:

- ``<n:format:date />``
- ``<n:format:hsc />``: Use ``<f:format.htmlspecialchars />``
- ``<n:format:htmlentities />``: Use ``<f:format.htmlentitiesDecode />``
- ``<n:format:striptags />``: Use ``<f:format.striptags />``
- ``<n:format:fileDownload />``: Use the native implementation of FAL
- ``<n:format:fileSize />``: Use the native implementation of FAL

Any usage will throw an exception.

Record rendering in the page module
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The rendering of news records and category records in the page module has been removed.

ClassAliasMapping
"""""""""""""""""
The mapping from non-namespace classes to the namespace classes has been removed.

Repositioning of the tt_content relation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The relation to content elements has been moved to a separate tab.

All Changes
-----------
This is a list of all changes in this release: ::

        TBD

This list has been created by using ``git log --since="2015/xx/xx" --abbrev-commit --pretty='%ad %s (Commit %h by %an)' --date=short``.
